Preparing for the second week of IDMA 2025

Hi all,

Here are some quick remarks as we prepare for the second week of the IDMA course.

MATERIAL AT THE LECTURES AND FOR INDEPENDENT READING

As already communicated during the first week, you need to study actively on your own during the course, and you are highly recommended to read the textbooks before the lectures and then again after the lectures.

Of course, we try to cover as much as we can of the relevant material during the lecture. However, we will not be able to explain everything, and sometimes the dynamics of the lectures means that we cannot talk in detail even about everything that is written in the notes. As a case in point, this already happened during both of the days during the first week, and will happen again going forward. Unfortunately, we will not be able to spend any more time on the material from the first week, but will have to move on to be able to dedicate as much time as appropriate to the topics covered during week 2.

PROBLEM SET 1 DUE ON WEDNESDAY

Please note that problem set 1 is due this Wednesday before the lecture. This is a hard deadline, so make sure not to miss it. Also, note that you have to pass all problem sets to be eligible for the exam. But the problem set problems are anyway what the exam problems will look like, so you are doing yourself a service by working hard on them, and the feedback you will receive in the form of grading will help you understand what is expected from you on the exam.

Two great opportunities to get some assistance with the problem set is (1) to attend the exercise class Monday afternoon and then (2) continue to the study cafe, where there is even free food for everybody who registers in time. What's not to like?

COURSE INFORMATION

Finally, a small request: Please do not send questions about information that is clearly available in the course plan at https://absalon.ku.dk/courses/80492/files/9310261?module_item_id=2632608 . We want to spend the time we have to help you students deal with the challenging aspects of this course (of which there are many) rather than repeating information that you have already been given. ;-) 

Looking forward to seeing you tomorrow Monday!

Jakob
