IDMA: How to deal with cheating on the problem sets

Hi all,

My apologies for reacting a little bit later than desired to your messages about cheating on problem set 1.

This is frustrating, and, of course, demoralizing for you as TAs, since it is not clear why you should spent lots of time grading what an AI bot said rather than what the students wrote.  

Srikanth and I have discussed this briefly, and our conversations have basically led to the following conclusions, I think (please do feel free to complement or correct as needed, Srikant!):

(1) The problem sets are a part of the instruction, not of the grading. Students don't gain anything by cheating in the sense that it will make their grades better. On the contrary, cheating will only hurt them, and honest students will gain from being better prepared for the exam. Hopefully, this can help us feel slightly better, even if student cheating on the problem sets is still wrong and frustrating.

(2) Although it is impossible to know this, I would hope and believe that a large fraction of the students realize that it is in their own best interest to try to do the problem sets. You are doing the grading for these students, to help them in their studies. (And, based on experience, these students would not submit unless the problem sets were compulsory, so we are making them compulsory for all students to help them.)

(3) Even for students who do use AI bots, they can still have tried to read through the answers to see if they are correct, and they will learn from the feedback comments you provide in your grading.

The list of items above is to argue that even if university instruction after the advent of high-quality AI bots has become much more challenging, your work on grading problem sets is still important and helps the students.

When it comes to how to deal with cases of cheating that you discover, our conclusions are as follows:

(a) We need clear and convincing evidence of cheating. A single student writing overly detailed or otherwise ChatGPT-like solutions is not conclusive (unless you find compelling evidence of this, such as turns of phrase like "as a large language model, I have no sense of the hardness of this problem, but here is how you can solve it" or things like this). Two students writing solutions that follow each other extremely closely (and for a problem where the solutions is not obvious and supershort), and maybe even do exactly the same mistakes in the same way, is a clear indication of cheating.

Please make sure to run any such clearly suspected cases of cheating by Srikanth and me, just so that we can calibrate and keep a consistent level of "cheating detection".

(b) For problem solutions where we are convinced that the students are cheating, we return the solutions without grading, saying that they failed a "plagiarism check", but allow the students to resubmit all solutions in a week. We also inform the students that we will inform administration about a suspected case of cheating.

(c) So that Srikanth and I can actually report to administration, please send us a message with:
- student names and IDs,
- the study program of the students, 
- a brief but clear description of why we suspect that the students are cheating,
- the submitted problem solutions.

Just to be clear, the point of reporting the students is not that they will actually be charged formally with cheating. The standards of proof for this are extremely high (as they should be), and even if we are fully convinced ourselves, chances are that the proofs we have would not hold up in the formal legal proceedings that would follow if DIKU administration would decide to file a formal complaint (which, based on experience, they will not).

However, the fact that we are reporting the students, and that the students are aware of this, hopefully means that they will think twice before doing something similar again. The head of their study program will probably call them to a meeting, which will hopefully not be pleasant but will send a clear signal that the students need to receive.

Please don't hesitate to let us know if you would wish to discuss this more.

Jakob
