Some remarks on mathematical induction and democracy

Hi all,

Here are some remarks after the lecture yesterday.

PROOFS BY MATHEMATICAL INDUCTION

There are many different intuitive explanations for what a proof by mathematical induction is. One parallel is that if I show that I can reach the first step of a ladder, and that I can always go from one step to the next one, then this shows that I can climb arbitrarily high on the ladder. Another view of how mathematical induction works is to think about a row of domino tiles: if one domino tile falls, then the next one falls as well, so flipping just the first tile will make the whole row of tiles flip.

What we did in in class on Monday was to make all of this formal, and to explain how to build this type of proofs so that we are sure that they are mathematically correct. It is hard to stress enough how important this concept of mathematical induction is. This is one of the most important topics covered in this course, and so you should make sure to study hard to understand how inductive proof works.

Make sure to do exercises about this and consult your TAs if you get stuck, and you can also ask them to do induction proofs on the board during your exercise classes.

PREPARING FOR THE WEDNESDAY LECTURES ON LOGIC

On Wednesday, we will continue our discussions of mathematical proofs and proof techniques, and describe the logical foundations of mathematical reasoning. There is quite a lot of material that we need to cover, so please do make sure to prepare for our Wednesday lectures by reading Chapter 2 in KBR in advance.

MATHEMATICS AND DEMOCRACY

I also wanted to expand a little bit on the comments I have made in class that we should accept the principle of mathematical induction by majority vote.

This is, of course, a joke, but there is more truth to it than you might think. The point I was trying to make is that mathematical induction is not obviously "true" or "false" per se. As we discussed, we use induction to "check an infinite number of cases" --- or, using the intuitive explanation above, to argue about an infinitely long row of domino tiles --- and it isn't quite clear what that is actually supposed to mean. We cannot actually perform this process of "checking infinitely many cases". Still, the example proofs we did in class seemed to convince many of you that the statements I was trying to prove were actually true.

The way we deal with this is that when we do mathematics, we just have to agree on what basic facts and methods of reasoning we see to be obviously true and valid, and then we will build our mathematical theory on top of these obvious truths, or axioms. Of course, we want the axioms to be natural and nice, but which axioms to use is ultimately a choice that we make.

One example of this comes from geometry. Is it true that if I fix a line L and some point P not on this line, then there is exactly one other line L' that passes through P and is parallel to L? Our geometric intuition tells us that yes, this should be true (try it with pen, paper, and a ruler). So for centuries people tried to prove this from the other axioms of classical, so-called Euclidean, geometry, but failed. Then, in the 1800s, it was realized that, in fact, you cannot prove this, but you have to include it as an extra axiom. Furthermore, if you don't include it, you get other types of geometry that are highly relevant to the world that we actually live in (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Parallel_postulate).

Another example of an obvious, or not so obvious, truth is what is referred to as Zorn's lemma (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zorn%27s_lemma) or the Axiom of choice (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Axiom_of_choice). This is the seemingly quite natural claim saying roughly that if you have a bunch of sets, then you can build a new set by choosing exactly one representative from each set in the bunch. This is clearly true for finite collections of sets. But if your bunch of sets is infinite, then what does this really mean? So most mathematicians accept the Axiom of choice as a natural generalization to an infinite setting of something that we know to be true in a finite setting, but some don't. And since it is a bit controversial, it is nicer if you can prove your theorems without using the Axiom of choice.

It is important to understand that this doesn't change the fact that mathematics is 100% rigorous. But it is only rigorous on top of the foundations that we use for building it, and, ultimately, we are the ones who choose those foundations. By majority vote, if you wish...

Looking forward to seeing you on our Wonderful Wednesday,

Jakob

