Logic, proof techniques, and problem set 2

Hi all,

We are now done with our overview of logic and proof techniques.

In the weeks that will follow, we will use the tools and techniques we have learned this week to construct increasingly sophisticated proofs for increasingly complicated statements. In order for you to be able to follow, it is absolutely crucial that you make sure to understand the basic of logics that we went over and how to construct valid mathematical proofs using the tools and techniques that were presented.

And this is really nothing specifically about the IDMA course at all --- this is about how to perform rigorous mathematical reasoning in general, and this is something that you will ultimately need to do in pretty much any course in computer science or mathematics that you will take later during your studies. The sooner you learn this material, and learn it really well, the more it will help you during the rest of your studies at UCPH, and also out there in the real world once you have left UCPH (assuming that you don't get stuck here, like Srikanth and yours truly...).

I have now cleaned up my notes for the lectures during this week and uploaded them to the module for the 3rd week on Absalon. At the end of the lecture notes you find some extra pages with theorems, exercises, and proofs that we didn't have time to cover in class, but is intended to provide helpful additional reading for you as you try to dig deeper into this material.

Regarding problem set 2, after the lectures today you should be perfectly good to go for all problems on this problem set. Some of them will require a clever idea or two in addition to the material we have covered in class, but this will always be the case. Even on the exam, you will need to:
(a) know the material really well, so that you can juggle with all definitions and arguments confidently, but also
(b) come up with somewhat creative ways of using your knowledge to solve problems (which is what requires you to know the material well, because otherwise it will be hard for you to see what kind of ideas might be useful for which type of problem and how).

Jakob

