Halfway through the course

Hi all,

Here comes some information and reminders as we are approaching the halfway mark of the IDMA course.

PROBLEM SET 2 DUE TOMORROW WEDNESDAY

Your solutions to problem set 2 are due tomorrow Wednesday before the lecture. Do make sure to submit in time. Also, make sure to double-check and triple-check that you are submitting the right PDF file, and that you have been working on the right problem set (not from 2023 or 2024, but for this year's edition of the course).

ONLINE DAY TOMORROW WEDNESDAY

The lecture tomorrow will be online at https://lu-se.zoom.us/j/66875624789?pwd=azhpaG1BV1ZEbllZcm13SFNoZVFqQT09 .

Some of the exercise classes will also be online, but some TAs will offer substitute classes at other times instead. You should have received information from your TA about the set-up for tomorrow.

SPEED OF LECTURES AND THE NEED TO STUDY

We are now halfway through the course, and I have a more serious remark, which is meant both as an encouragement and as a warning.

As I think you might have noticed, we are getting deeper into the mathematical contents of the course, and the speed of the lectures is picking up.

In this context, you need to be aware that in order to learn the material on this course, it is not sufficient to just show up for the lectures. You should also:
- Try to read the relevant material before the lecture (as per the instructions in the course plan https://absalon.ku.dk/courses/80492/files/9310261?module_item_id=2632608).
- Go over your notes, and/or the course notes posted online, after the lecture to try to understand the material covered in class, and repeat it so that you learn it.
- Also, read the relevant passages in the textbooks again. As announced several times, the course contains material that we do not have time to cover in class.
- Work on the suggested exercises (not just the problem sets) to learn how to use the material.

It is important to understand that you need study all concepts introduced, and all pieces of notation, so that you have no problems parsing what is written on the board. When you see pieces of notation such as, say, \( d | n \), \( A \subseteq B \), \( A \cap B \), \( \forall x P(x) \), or \( \exists y Q(y)\), you should never have to look up in the textbook or your notes what this means. When we have come this far in the course, you need to have learned and memorized the meaning of notation like this, so that you can focus on how to solve the problems, or prove the theorems, that are written in this notation.

When you see pseudocode on the board, like for instance towards the end of Monday's lecture, you need to be able to read and interpret it, so that you can yourselves reproduce the dry-run examples in the lecture notes, and also do your own dry-runs with other examples of inputs.

I am saying all of this because some of the reactions I am getting during the lectures make me worried that some of you have not done the amount of self-study needed to be able to follow the course properly. Of course, it is always good to ask when something is unclear, and I am always happy to take questions during the breaks or after the lectures to the best of my ability. But when questions concern basic aspects of material that was covered several weeks ago, then the hard truth is that by now you should have studied this material well enough to be comfortable with these basics. This is especially important since the course will only keep picking up speed from here onwards, and you will not be able to follow the advanced material covered during the final weeks if you have not learned properly what was covered before in the course.

And, repeating what I have already said several times before, this is not just about the IDMA course. What you learn in this course will serve as a foundation for many later courses. Learning the IDMA material properly will help you will all these other courses, but not studying properly will hurt you over and over again as you continue your studies at the University of Copenhagen.

WHAT YOU SHOULD KNOW AS OF TOMORROW WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON

Just to help you assess how you are doing, and referring to the course contents at https://absalon.ku.dk/courses/80492/files/9310264?module_item_id=2632609 , after the lecture tomorrow Wednesday you should know the following:

THE BASIC COMPUTER MODEL
RAM model (memory consisting of big array of fixed-size words)
Unit time cost for (essentially) all simple operations that can be performed on a single word

ASYMPTOTIC ANALYSIS
Big-oh notation: Meaning and use
Complexity analysis for algorithms (algorithms covered in the course + simple algorithms in exercises)

BASIC DATA STRUCTURES
Stacks
Queues 
Lists (implemented as arrays and as singly or doubly linked lists)

SORTING AND SEARCHING
Linear search
Binary search
Insertion sort
Merge sort 

BASIC ARITHMETIC AND SET THEORY
Quotient, remainder, mod function, divisibility
Prime numbers and prime factorization
Greatest common divisor (GCD), Euclidean algorithm
Least common multiple (LCM)
Representation of numbers in different bases (decimal, binary, octal, hexadecimal)
Sets, subsets, power sets, intersection, union, complement, Venn diagrams
Inclusion-exclusion principle
Different functions: polynomials, exponentials, logarithms
Sequences and sums and ways to specify them (explicit, recursive)
Connections to asymptotic analysis
Sums of n first numbers, n first squares, n first cubes; geometric sums

LOGIC, MATHEMATICAL PROOFS, AND PROOF TECHNIQUES
Propositional logic, connectives, truth tables, satisfiability, tautologies, contradictions
Predicate logic, universal and existential quantifiers
Direct proofs
Proofs by contraposition
Proofs by contradiction
Mathematical induction (and reasoning with invariants)

COMBINATORICS AND PROBABILITY
Multiplication principle
How to choose k elements out of k with and without repetition and caring or not caring about order
Sequences, permutations, multisets, sets
Binomial coefficients ("n choose k")
Combinatorial proofs (show that two sets have the same size by exhibiting a bijection)
Pigeonhole principle
Basic probability theory (for uniform distribution, with outcomes equally likely, this is just counting)

Good luck with your continued work on the course, and see you next Monday!

Jakob
