Some quick notes about exercise classes and problem sets

Hi all,

Some quick remarks as we prepare for the second week of IDMA 2025.

One important point to communicate to the students regarding the problem sets is that they should probably not start on the problem set problems right away, but should rather do some warm-up problems first in the suggested exercises to make sure that they have understood the course material. Once this understanding is in place, they should be able to attack the problem set problems.

To motivate the students to work on the problem sets from previous years, you can point out that they are quite similar to the problem sets that they have to do this year. Also, pretty much all problems are taken from old exams, so this is an excellent way to prepare for the exam. You are highly encouraged to solve old problem sets on the board using the solutions you can find on Absalon in the folder https://absalon.ku.dk/courses/80492/files/folder/ProblemSetsCollection --- perhaps after telling your students in advance that in 30 minutes, or in the next exercise class, you will solve problems such-and-such, so that they can try to have a go first --- but you should not hand out the written-up solutions to the students. (The solutions will all be made available closer to the exam, but for now we want to make you as TAs extra attractive by ensuring you are the sole source for such solutions. ;-) )

Let me also comment briefly on generative AI. It is to be expected that some students will use this for the problem sets. In view of the amount of training data available for intro to discrete math and algorithms courses, it is extremely hard to come up with something natural that a competent chatbot will not immediately solve.

But what you could tell the students if you suspect they are using AI, and what is true, is that resorting to chatbots is a very bad idea for at least three reasons:

(a) Firstly, students need to learn this material not mainly to pass this course, but because this is a prerequisite for many (most?) other courses they will need to take during their university studies. Students really need to digest and internalize this stuff, and the problem sets are meant to help them to do so.

(b) Secondly, students will not have access to AI bots at the actual exam, and so even if all they care about is passing the exam, they are throwing away valuable opportunities to actually do exam problems and get detailed feedback to help prepare for the exam.

(c) Finally, using AI bots for the problem sets is cheating. There are stringent rules against cheating during university studies, and cheating can have pretty unpleasant consequences, such as being expelled from a course, or even from all of the University of Copenhagen on a temporary or permanent basis. There are usually a few students reported every year, and this is always the least pleasant aspect of the course.

Jakob
