Preparing for the 7th week of the IDMA course

Hi all,

Here are some remarks as we are preparing for the 7th week of the IDMA course.

GRAPH THEORY

We have now started working on graph theory. Last week, Srikanth did a recap of basic notation and terminology for graphs, and then went over graph traversal breadth-first and depth-first. Please note that these are algorithms that you will need to have digested to be able to follow the lectures this coming week!

On a more general note, and as has been mentioned before in class, the material we cover in graph theory is some of the hardest in this course, and also the most important. Much of what we have been doing during the first five weeks of the course is to collect the tools and techniques needed to be able to reason about graph problems and algorithms. You can expect a significant fraction of problems related to graphs on the exam, providing a large fraction of the potential points that will decide your score.

To help you study, in addition to my handwritten lecture notes, and in addition to what you can find in the CLRS textbook, there is a wealth of notes and slides (in English and Danish) on Absalon. The material includes proofs for several theorems that we do not have time to cover in class, but where understanding these proofs is very much part of the curriculum. The additional material we provide is meant to provide extra help for you, but all the details that you need can ultimately be found in CLRS.

INFORMATION ABOUT PROBLEM SETS

In the module "Course information and material" on Absalon you now find the grading guidelines used for problem set 1, where you can see what different issues we encountered when grading and how we awarded and deducted points. We will grade the exam in the same way as we do the problem sets.

In the module "Problem sets from DMFS 2023, IDMA 2024, and IDMA 2025" you will now find proposed solutions to problem set 1 for all these years. Solutions for problem sets 2, 3, and 4 will also be released as soon a possible.

Let me also add a reminder, as you are working on your solutions to pset 4, that you should never, every just state the answer when solving a problem, but always make sure to explain your reasoning. You should write your solutions so that a fellow student of yours can read, understand, and verify them.

EXAM AIDS

As you will have seen on the course webpage, the rules for exam aids are as follows:

Hjælpemidler
Skriftlige hjælpemidler tilladt
Udskrifter (fx af løsninger til gamle eksamener) er ikke tilladt mens håndskrevne noter og lærebøger er tilladt.
Skriftlige hjælpemidler inkluderer ikke e-bøger og internetadgang.
 
What this means is basically the following:
- Textbooks in paper format is OK, but not in electronic format.
- Any handwritten notes you students have made are fine to bring to the exam (provided that they are on paper).
- Even my handwritten notes from the lectures are fine (though I have made my best to make sure they are illegible).
- But you cannot bring print-outs of suggested solutions to problem sets or previous exams. So any suggested solutions that will be shared during the rest of the course is material that you could, and should, use to prepare for the exam, but you cannot bring this material with you to the exam.

FINALLY

I am aware that the course has been getting increasingly harder over the last couple of weeks, as we have started doing proper mathematical reasoning with proofs. For many of you, this might be the first time you encounter rigorous mathematical reasoning, and this can take some effort getting used to. But this effort is well worth it! The point is that if you can understand what we are doing in this course, and develop your mathematical thinking, then this will turn into a superpower that will not only help you to ace this course, but pretty much any other course you will take during your studies at the University of Copenhagen. Because, at the end of the day, whatever topic the course is about, you tend to need to be able to perform creative but rigorous thinking in order to solve problems, and helping you develop such skills is exactly what this course is about.

Now keep up the good work as we are approaching the end of the course, and are switching to preparations for the exam when you will have the opportunity to show us how well you have learned all the material we have covered! ;-)

Jakob
