Eligibility for the IDMA exam on April 2 (and some more exam info)

Hi all,

I have now reported eligibility status for the IDMA exam on April 2 for all students on the course.

Since this was a bit more complicated than expected, study administration only received this information after the end of office hours, and so you will most likely not hear back from them before Monday morning at the earliest.

If, when you get notification on Monday, it would be the case that there is something wrong --- i.e., that you should be eligible for the exam, but administration says you are not --- then it is very important that you react as quickly as possible. Unfortunately, the system we have for reporting this is unbelievably clunky, with several possible sources of error along the way. I try to do my best, but it sometimes happens (like for one or a couple of students per year) that something goes wrong. If so, we need you to notify us right away, so that we can fix it.

Note, however, that if you did not submit all four compulsory problem sets, then you are not eligible for the exam. A few students (thankfully, very few) just did not submit problem set 4. If you are one of these students, and still want to take the exam, then it is most urgent that we hear back from you ASAP if we are to find a way for you to take the exam.

As a reminder, recall that the first page of the exam is already available at https://absalon.ku.dk/courses/80492/files/9451364?module_item_id=2675466 . Read it now, so that you can familiarize yourself with what it says there before the actual exam and save time.

In terms of what the exam looks like, you can expect it to be similar in spirit to the exams from previous years.

As soon as I can get to it (later tonight or tomorrow Saturday), I will have solutions for all problem sets and two of the three previous exams posted on Absalon. Please note that you cannot bring these solutions to the exam, because they are typewritten, but anything handwritten, including the lecturer's handwritten notes, is OK.

Finally, in the (purely hypothetical) event that you will need to attend the re-exam, it might be good to know that this is a 30-minute oral exam without preparation that will take place on Monday June 30. But of course I am not expecting to see anyone of you there, so:

Good luck with the final preparations for the exam! 

Jakob
