Exam information and eligibility

Hi all,

As expected, it seems that most of you can see your exam eligiblity as of this morning.

However, some of you are struggling to find the relevant information, and are sending me questions regarding matters for which you have already received full information previously.

It is unfortunately not possible for me to provide individualized answers to all students, especially to questions that have already been fully covered in the course information and announcements on Absalon, but below follows a recap of the main points. Before you send any messages to me, please do make sure to check that the answers to your questions cannot already be found below.

REQUIREMENTS TO BE ELIGIBLE FOR THE IDMA EXAM

You need to pass all 4 problem sets to be eligible to take the IDMA exam. As stated previously, reaching 120 points on problem sets 1-3 is sufficient for a pass, and for problem set 4 all that is needed is a serious submission (i.e., something good enough to qualify for a resubmission, in case we would have had resubmissions for pset 4, which we don't in view of the tight schedule).

Note that, as already stated in the information you have received, you do NOT need to reach 120 points to pass problem set 4. However, you do need to make a serious submission, and not submitting problem set 4 at all means that you failed this problem and are not eligible for the exam.

If you did not quite reach 120 points for one of the problem sets 1-3, we have looked at the average of your scores for these problem sets, and have also taken into consideration your performance on problem set 4. Anyone who is reaching 120 points on average, or is even close to reaching 120 points on average, has been reported as eligible for the exam. My assessment is that all students who submitted all 4 problem sets, and have done serious work on all 4 problem sets, have been reported as eligible.

Special rules apply for the students who took the IDMA course last year. Students who completed the problem sets for the IDMA course in 2024 and were eligible for the exam then are automatically eligible for the exam this year as well.

INFORMATION ABOUT TIME AND PLACE OF EXAM AND ABOUT EXAM ELIGIBILITY IN THE HU IT SYSTEMS

I am also getting quite a few questions about the time and the place of the exam, and how you find find information about this or about your eligibility in the KU IT systems. These are questions to which I do not really have any good answers, because we teachers are pretty much completely disconnected from this process from the point where we submit the exam to administration for printing (which we did long ago) and report exam eligibility (done last Friday) to the point where we get a pile of exams back for grading (which happens a week after the exam or so).

Thus, any specific questions of this kind you have about the exam have to be directed to study administration, but let me nevertheless try to repeat some general points of information (that you have also received before, but as we all know repetition is the mother of learning ;-) ).

The exam eligibility requirements are clearly spelled out in the course information document and the problem set rules webpage on Absalon, and are also repeated above in this message. If you meet these requirements, then you are good to go. Sometimes there are errors in the system, but then you have to make sure to contact administration to make sure that these errors are fixed. If you are eligible for the exam, you should go to the exam. It has happened before that the last questions marks are ironed out just in the final hour before the exam. I respond extremely quickly to any contacts from administration. But I cannot solve your problems --- only administration can, so you should contact them, not me.

Based on experience from previous years, students who have registered for the exam but are not eligible will get an e-mail notification clearly stating that they are not eligible to take the exam. In previous years, students have not received any message when everything has been in order with the exam registration.

Copying information from previous messages, if you are eligible for the exam, then you should be able to go to KUnet.ku.dk and see in the system where the exam is held and what your exam ID by doing as follows:
- Choose 'Selvbetjening'.
- Then choose 'Eksamensplan - Tid og sted': 'Øvrige skriftlige stedprøver'.
- Sign in with your KU-ID.
- Select 'Se oversigt over eksamen'.
- And make sure to allow pop-ups.

Once you have done this, you should get a list back. At the bottom of this list, you should see some letters and numbers and then "Introduction to Discrete Math and Algorithms" or something similar, which is the row containing your exam ID, location, and time of the exam.

Now make sure to enjoy the nice whether today, and let it inspire you for a final amazing pre-exam spurt so that you will just totally crush the exam tomorrow! Good luck!

Jakob


********** CORRECTION **********

Dear Jakob,

thank you, a small correction from the administration about where to find the exam ID, location and time:

"Du kan se, at du er tilmeldt på din Selvbetjening og i Digital Eksamen finder du information om tid og sted."

I.e. the correct place to check is "Digital Eksamen", not "'Øvrige skriftlige stedprøver' (which is blank).

Best regards,

Nina

**********

Apparently, this year you should not look at 'Øvrige skriftlige stedprøver' but instead check Digital Eksamen (and I believe this system can also be accessed directly at https://eksamen.ku.dk/).

**********

Thanks for the comment! I have edited the announcement now.

I have no way of seeing the student view in KU systems, so I would need assistance from you students to be sure that the information is correct.

Do I understand correctly (for this and potentially for future years), that the following instructions should work?

You should be able to see in the KU IT systems where the exam is held and what your exam ID by doing as follows:
- Go to KUnet.ku.dk.
- Log in with your KU-ID and password.
- Choose 'Selvbetjening' to see that you are registered for the exam.
- Then choose Digital Eksamen (which can also be accessed directly at https://eksamen.ku.dk/) to see the time and place of the exam.

If any further adjustment of these instructions are needed, please feel free to provide them as comments below, but please double-check to make sure that what you write is correct to avoid any further confusion.

Jakob
