IDMA exam grades on their way

Dear all,

This message is to let you know that the grades from the IDMA exam on April 2 are finally on their way. I have reported the results to administration now, and they should hopefully become visible to you sometime during the first half of next week when they have successfully passed through the system.

I am very sorry that this has taken so long. This academic year has been unusually challenging for me due to serious health problems in my family. I hope and believe that the IDMA course has mostly worked well in spite of this --- in no small part thanks to Srikanth and our amazing TAs --- but reporting the exam grades is my responsibility. And I thought I had IDMA under control, but then the week after the exam just slipped away without me being able to dedicate as much time to work as I would have hoped and needed.

While you are waiting to get your grades, you can look at the page https://absalon.ku.dk/courses/80492/pages/exam-solutions-grading-guidelines-and-statistics-for-the-idma-exam-april-2-2025 in the "Course information and material" module to see suggested solutions to the exam problems and grading guidelines that explain how your exams have been assessed. At the same page you can also find statistics for the grade distribution. Regarding the suggested solutions to the exam problems, it should be stressed that what you find there is not necessarily the only correct way to solve the problems, but it is one way.

As a general comments, my impression is that the exam results are quite good. My congratulations to all of you who put in hard work and had it rewarded! As I repeated several times during the course --- perhaps too often, even --- I believe that every minute you spent on this course will prove to be a very profitable investment as you continue your studies at the University of Copenhagen.

If you enjoyed this course and scored a 12 or 10 on the exam, please do consider applying for an IDMA TA position next year! We have seen from your course evaluations, this year as well as previous years, that the teaching assistants have played a very important role for many of you. We need your assistance to ensure that this will be the case for next year's students as well! We crucially need all help we can get from you students to keep the aspects that are good about this course and to work on aspects that, saying it politely, still leave room for improvement.

In case you failed the exam, then as previously announced the re-exam will be on Monday June 30. This will be a 30-minute oral exam without preparation (which means that students will get asked technical questions on problems similar to those on the exam in April, but easier, for ca 20 minutes, and then the examiners will confer for ca 5 minutes before announcing the grade). 

Jakob
