IDMA 2026 up and running!

Hi all,

First a quick news flash: There were some train traffic problems this morning, and so the lecture will start 5-10 minutes late. But I am on my way. I am sorry for this, but based on statistics this will only happen rarely. Sometimes, though, when the planning is tight, the course is more sensivitive to train delays, and today is unfortunately such a day.

Here are some quick remarks to help you succeed on the IDMA course.

MATERIAL AT THE LECTURES AND FOR INDEPENDENT READING

As already communicated in class, you need to study actively on your own during the course, and you are highly recommended to read the textbooks before the lectures and then again after the lectures.

Of course, we try to cover as much as we can of the relevant material during the lecture. However, we will not be able to explain everything, and sometimes the dynamics of the lectures means that we cannot talk in detail even about everything that is written in the notes. As a case in point, this already happened in the very first lecture, and will happen again going forward. 

PROBLEM SET 1 DUE NEXT WEDNESDAY

Please note that problem set 1 is due next Wednesday before the lecture. This is a hard deadline, so make sure not to miss it. Also, note that you have to pass all problem sets to be eligible for the exam. But the problem set problems are anyway what the exam problems will look like, so you are doing yourself a service by working hard on them, and the feedback you will receive in the form of grading will help you understand what is expected from you on the exam.

A great opportunity to get some assistance with the problem sets is to attend the exercise classes on Monday and Wednesday afternoons. The TAs are there to help you!

COURSE INFORMATION

I know there was a lot of practical information towards the end of the first lecture. But please do make sure to review it carefully, by having a look at the slides again, and also please study the material posted on Absalon, especially in the "Course information and material" module.

In particular, before you send me a question on Absalon, please check that the answer is not already there on Absalon. This has been the case for most questions so far. Now, of course you should ask if anything is unclear. But we want to use the time we have for this course to make it as good as possible for all students. This includes putting a lot of detailed information on Absalon, so that we can instead focus on teaching the course material as well as possible and answering questions related to this material.

We want to spend the time we have to help you students deal with the challenging aspects of this course (of which there are many) rather than repeating information that you have already been given. ;-) 

Looking forward to seeing you in just a few minutes from now in Auditorium 1 at HCØ!

Jakob
