Welcome to the Introduction to Discrete Mathematics and Algorithms course!

Hi all, and welcome to the Introduction to Discrete Mathematics and Algorithms (IDMA) course!

To find information about the course, please check out the "modules" in Absalon. There is a general module with course information and material, and then there is one module per week with reading instructions and suggested exercises. For the first half of the course all of the material should be up-to-date, while for the second half we still have the 2025 files (but the course will be the same as last year, so we will just make sure to update the dates and do some polishing based on experiences from last year).

For the lectures, make sure to bring a pad of paper so that you can take notes! Many of the lectures will be on the board without slides. There is actually some fairly solid research showing that the best way to learn from lectures is to take notes while listening, and to do so by hand rather than by typing on a laptop. I will try to post on Absalon the handwritten notes I use for my lectures (sometimes before the lecture, and otherwise afterwards), so that you can compare with and complement the notes you have taken yourselves. While I hope that these notes will be helpful, please do observe that they are certainly no substitute for reading the textbooks. This is especially so since not everything in the course literature will be covered in the lectures.

For the exercise classes, please feel free to check out different exercise groups (hold). Different teaching assistants might use different styles, and you should try to find TAs that match your learning style as well as possible.

Very confusingly, administration has split the IDMA students into 9 exercise groups, scheduled rooms for 8 exercise classes, but only assigned 7 teaching assistants. I have been trying to get this corrected, but the official schedules at https://kurser.ku.dk/course/ndab23002u/ still look a bit off. Since we have 7 TAs and not more, there will be teaching assistants in the rooms scheduled for hold 1-7, but we will not use the room for hold 8 (at least not tomorrow). Hopefully the schedule and reality will become more synchronized during the week.

Please do check out the course information PDF file in the "Course information and material" module and make sure to familiarize yourselves with what is written in there. In particular, in order to be able to take the exam you have to hand in, and pass, 4 problem sets. The first problem has been posted now, and solutions are due on Wednesday February 11 before the lecture. This deadline is strict. Please make sure to read the rules for the problem sets at https://absalon.ku.dk/courses/89165/pages/rules-for-problem-sets-important-please-read-carefully as soon as possible --- you also find them via the general "Course information and material" module.

Just in case it can be useful, in the Media Gallery you can find video recordings of some lectures from the DMFS and DMA courses in 2021 and 2022, covering mostly the same material (in particular, DMFS is the previous incarnation of the IDMA course). Please note that watching videos is not a substitute for showing up for the lectures, though --- most likely you will benefit much more from the lectures if you actually attend them in person, and can interact with the lecturer and your coursemates, so the video recordings are just provided as an extra resource on top of this. I should say, though, that the course material towards the end of the course, when we get to graph theory, tends to be perceived as fairly challenging, so it would probably be a good idea to watch those lectures a bit in advance to be prepared for what will come.

I am looking forward to seeing you all when the lectures start tomorrow Monday at 13:15 in Lundbeck Auditoriet in the Biocenter at Ole Maaløes Vej 5!

Venlig hilsen
Jakob Nordström

Jakob Nordström, Professor
University of Copenhagen and Lund University
https://jakobnordstrom.se
