IDMA TA mailing list <idma@cs.lth.se>

IDMA: Notes from first TA meeting Fri Feb 6

Hi all,

Thanks for the meeting today! Here are some quick notes.

MEETING TIME

We will meet on Fridays 11:30-12:30 at https://lu-se.zoom.us/j/64191262268?pwd=9HALE6zHVDA8MDS7up3aGXBvjEiEI1.1 . Please make sure to mark your calendars --- we will need everybody to attend every week, since this is when we synch up on how to run this course.

WORKLOAD

My rough estimate of the TA workload --- for which I would happily receive updates from you --- in a slightly updated version compared to what I said to you during the meeting, is:

- Weekly TA meetings: 10 hours.
- Exercise classes: 30 hours.
- Problem set grading: 4 x 10 hours.
- Exam grading: 10 hours.
- Preparation time for exercise classes: Whatever remains in the time budget.

This year, you are getting paid for 120 hours, which means, if my estimate is correct, that you would have roughly 2 hours to prepare for every 2-hour exercise session.

If this estimate is off, then we will adjust by merging exercise classes towards the end of the course.

DEADLINE FOR PROBLEM SET 1

The deadline for problem set 1 will be shifted to Monday February 16.

SUGGESTIONS FOR EXERCISE CLASSES

I believe that students struggle to run pseudocode, and that it might be helpful to solve old problem sets with pseudocode snippets and analysis.

Doing exercises on invariants for algorithms would be good (and I don't plan to give any problem set exercises on other sorting algorithms, I think).

I will hopefully cover stacks, queues, and linked lists next Monday --- it would be good if you could also talk about this during the exercises, since there will not be much time for this.

The students will see GCD calculations before the deadline of pset 1 but not base-b representation. If you want to do exercises on these topics, then this is great.

MANNING OF EXERCISE CLASSES

The student distribution on exercise classes seems to be unusually unbalanced this year. Please talk to each other and synchronize so that all teaching assistants spend the exercise classes in a room where there are students who need assistance.

I think this was it for now.

Jakob


