
Oh, one more thing that I should have said:

STACKS, QUEUES, AND LINKED LISTS

I finally went over the slides on stacks, queues, and linked lists on Wednesday, but the presentation was (much) more rushed than I would have liked.

It would be great if you could go over this material again, and also explain to the students what the actual code looks like for inserting or removing elements in, say, a doubly linked list.

Jakob

**********


IDMA TA mailing list <idma@cs.lth.se>

IDMA: Notes from TA meeting Fri Feb 27

Hi all,

Here are some notes from our meeting yesterday, plus some things that I forgot to say.

PROBLEM SET 1

The resubmission deadline is this coming Monday March 2. The students should then get their final results for pset 1 within a week. Since there is no resubmission clock that starts ticking, it is not so important to coordinate the returns of resubmissions (though it could still be a nice touch, of course).

PROBLEM SET 2

Grading of problem set 2 seems to be under control, or at least I haven't seen any new questions in the grading guidelines document.

Students should get their graded problem set 2 back by Wednesday. Ideally, this should happen before the exercise classes, but the most important aspect is that you coordinate.

ENCOURAGE STUDENTS TO WORK ON THE PROBLEM SETS

After we have graded the resubmissions for problem set 1, we will probably have our first failing students.

Usually, a number of students will stop following the course after the first problem set, so this is normal.

However, for students who tried to resubmit but still failed, it is important that you encourage them to keep working.

Tell them to try to get extra points on future problem sets. If you have a few extra points on later problem sets, then this can compensate for a few missing points on an earlier problem set.

(Also, one thing that you should not tell them, but that will happen, is that once we see what the results are of all the four problem sets, I will lower the thresholds a little bit so that all students who clearly tried will be deemed to be eligible for the exam.)

TOPICS FOR EXERCISE CLASSES

Based on experience, counting combinations is tricky.

Please consider going over some poker hand probabilities with your students. Also, you could do dry-runs on translating between r-sized multisets from a universe of size n and standard r-sized sets from a universe of size n + r - 1, in both directions.

NEXT WEEK

Next week my colleague Amir Yehudayoff will be giving the lectures, but I will still run our TA meeting on Friday.

Jakob

