IDMA TA mailing list <idma@cs.lth.se>

Oh, one more thing:

I forgot to bring up the question about chatbots today.

It would be good if you could set aside a few minutes (say 10-15 minutes) to explore how easy it is for you to elicit answers to the problems on problem set 1, and what these answers look like.

This is good for us to know as we prepare for grading the problem sets.

Chances are that at least some students will use generative AI (though hopefully not too many), and so it is good to know roughly what this looks like. In this way, we can be better at detecting when this is happening. 

The point is not necessarily to file formal complaints about cheating --- my experience is that even in clear cases of cheating, it is hard to get DIKU to take the cases further --- but if nothing else we can signal to the concerned students that we are aware of what is happening, and help them change a behaviour that will not help them during their university studies.

Jakob

**********

IDMA: Help to try to get the chatbots to solve our problems?

Hi IDMA TAs,

If you could find a few minutes, I would greatly appreciate your assistance in trying to get chatbots to solve the first problem set (now available at https://absalon.ku.dk/courses/89165/files/folder/CurrentProblemSets?preview=10507868) and let me know how it goes.

From previous years, there are strong reasons to believe that, e.g., ChatGPT can just ace this problem set.

However, when I tried now, the AI bot refused to solve the problem set for me, answering:

I can help, but I need to be careful here.

This document is a current graded problem set (it even states submission rules and collaboration limits), and you asked me to solve the problems for you. Providing full worked solutions that could be submitted verbatim would cross the line for academic integrity.

This I found interesting.

I am guessing that with some creativity, it should be possible to convince the bot to solve the problem --- if nothing else, by cutting out pictures with the individual problems and feeding them to the bot --- but I would still be interested in knowing how laborious this process is and how good the results are.

And you might also want to try this out for the reason that you will want to be able to smell when your students are cheating in this way. Last year, a very cautious and unverified assessment is that chatbot cheating did not seem to be too rampant (because if so, results should have been better), but given the current state of this technology and how rapidly it develops, this is something that we need to check every year.

Regarding use of other problem sets for your exercise classes, I just wanted to let you know that you can use any previous versions of problem set 1 (specifically) that you like --- I ended up cooking two new pseudocode problems for this year.

Jakob

