Exam eligibility and other information

Hi all,

My understanding is that since the second half of last week you can all see your exam eligibility, and students who are registered for the exam but have been reported as *not* eligible should have received a notification about this.

If you have erroneously been marked as ineligible, then please do not panic. We will fix this. Unfortunately, the system is unbelievably clunky, with many sources of error along the way, but we will be able to sort everything out with a bit of patience.

If you believe that you have been reported ineligible in error, then please send a message to exam administration with me in copy where you give full details such as your full name and KU user ID, and also include any relevant information that might be helpful to find you on Absalon (where, rather brilliantly, students are not sorted in the same order as on the exam registration lists, and also some student names are missing for privacy reasons which can also make things a bit complicated).

REQUIREMENTS TO BE ELIGIBLE FOR THE IDMA EXAM

First and foremost, if you have been eligible for the IDMA exam any previous year, then you remain eligible this year.

If you have not been eligible for the IDMA exam before, then you need to have passed all 4 problem sets this year. As stated previously, reaching 120 points on problem sets 1-3 is sufficient for a pass, and for problem set 4 all that is needed is a serious submission (i.e., something good enough to qualify for a resubmission, in case we would have had resubmissions for pset 4, which we don't in view of the tight schedule).

Note that, as already stated in the information you have received, you do *not* need to reach 120 points to pass problem set 4. However, you do need to make a serious submission, and not submitting problem set 4 at all means that you failed this problem and are not eligible for the exam.

If you did not quite reach 120 points for one of the problem sets 1-3, we have looked at the average of your scores for these problem sets, and have also taken into consideration your performance on problem set 4. Anyone who is reaching 120 points on average, or is even close to reaching 120 points on average, has been reported as eligible for the exam. My assessment is that all students who submitted all 4 problem sets, and have done serious work on all 4 problem sets, have been reported as eligible (except for any mistakes in the reporting on my side or later in the chain).

If you meet the requirements to be eligible for the exam, then you are good to go. Sometimes there are errors in the system, but then you have to make sure to contact administration to make sure that these errors are fixed. If you are eligible for the exam, you should go to the exam. It has even happened before (though only very rarely) that the last questions marks are ironed out just in the final hour before the exam. I respond extremely quickly to any contacts from administration in the final hours leading up to the exam. But I cannot solve your problems --- only administration can, so you should contact them, not me.

INFORMATION ABOUT TIME AND PLACE OF EXAM AND ABOUT EXAM ELIGIBILITY IN THE KU IT SYSTEMS

I have also been getting questions about the time and the place of the exam, and how you find find information about this or about your eligibility in the KU IT systems. These are questions to which I do not really have any good answers, because we teachers are pretty much completely disconnected from this process from the point where we submit the exam to administration for printing (which we did long ago) and report exam eligibility (done last week) to the point where we get a big pile of exams back for grading (which happens a week after the exam or so).

So, with the caveat that this could be dead-wrong --- and if it is, please add a comment to correct --- my understanding is the following.

I believe that students should be able to see in the KU IT systems where the exam is held and what their exam ID by doing as follows:
- Go to KUnet.ku.dk.
- Log in with your KU-ID and password.
- Choose 'Selvbetjening' to see that you are registered for the exam.
- Then choose Digital Eksamen (which can also be accessed directly at https://eksamen.ku.dk/) to see the time and place of the exam.

Again, if any adjustments or additions to this information is needed, please feel free to provide them as comments below, but please double-check to make sure that what you write is correct to avoid any further confusion.

Good luck on the exam!

Jakob
