IDMA: Meet at 9:00 am today for exam grading (solutions and instructions attached)

Hi all,

We are meeting today Thursday at 9:00 am in the AC Section / BARC premises at Vibenshuset to grade the exam. Please see https://jakobnordstrom.se/visitor-info/ for directions. There is fruit and coffee in your kitchen which you are free to make use of.

In case I am late, the instructions below should be sufficient to get you started.

Attached with this message you find this year's IDMA exam with and without solutions. I would be most grateful if you could help to check for typos or any more significant errors. In case you want paper copies, please ask Flo or Theo to print some. (I think I have shared copies in previous years that weren't used anyway, so it is probably better to print on a need-based basis.)

I have started making draft grading guidelines at https://docs.google.com/document/d/1y0uVSyyQYklb4QTR9XIPRWmUbaCATXiDXtg-Zm_LIok/edit .

Once we get started in earnest on the grading, you will fill in the score in the grading spreadsheet https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1XrhrNu0TWlNo1L-QFstGYmlIQ1xqZgnsBmg-7-bHuJQ/edit , but this spreadsheet is currently in need of updating (which will happen tomorrow as soon as we know exam numbers and other details).

Below you find a recap of the exam grading set-up.

Jakob

********** INSTRUCTIONS **********

(1) On the grading day, we meet as early as possible in the morning, and we start by all TAs tentatively grading all problems for as many exams as possible during ca 1 hour (maybe 6-8 exams each or so). The purpose of this exercise is twofold:
(a) To collect examples of issues/mistakes with the solutions, so that we can discuss how to grade them.
(b) To get a sense of how difficult the different problems are to grade, and how many students have solved each problem. (Some problems might be quite challenging to grade, because they are hard, but then it might also be the case that relatively few students have attempted these problems.)

(2) Based on the collected information in 1(a), we revise the grading guidelines to something that is almost final.

(3) Based on 1(b), you TAs split up the exam problems into roughly equal-sized chunks in terms of workload. The intention is that every problem X on the exam should be graded by one or at most two TAs, so that all students get problem X graded in a consistent way. This is a way of ensuring that any harsh, lenient, or slightly off treatment during grading will tend to affect all students in the same way.

The way we have done this before is that when we have N TAs, the exam is split up in N chunks that you all agree are roughly equal, and then you make a (more or less) random choice which TA gets which chunk. We could also split the exam up into N/2 chunks and have each chunk being graded by a pair of TAs.

I don't care too much how you do this, but I want to know the final proposal (before any random coins are flipped) to be able to approve it (which has always happened in previous years). For randomness, I usually use https://www.random.org/, but feel free to do this in any way you all can agree on.

(4) Once we are done with (2) and (3), you TAs spend the rest of the day grading, with the goal of finishing up sometime around 6-8 pm. You will be able to use the Saint Bernard meeting room the whole day. I will also try to come visit you a couple of times during the day, and my office is close by. I will have to leave around 4 pm or slightly earlier, though.

You will fill in the scores in the grading spreadsheet https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1XrhrNu0TWlNo1L-QFstGYmlIQ1xqZgnsBmg-7-bHuJQ/edit . It will be important to only have lines for exam numbers that exist, and remove numbers for exams that don't exist, because otherwise the exam statistics get screwed up.

When you TAs grade the exams, it is important that you make notes in the exam solutions where and why you are deducting points (based on the grading guidelines), so that we teachers can see this later when we get complaints on your grading (which we will get, because it happens every year that we have brilliant students who have just been completely misunderstood at the exam, and this is something we have to deal with ;-) ).

Exactly how the grading work during the rest of the day is organized I will leave to your TAs. It is important that if the division into chunks turned out to be completely off, then it should not be the case that a single TA is left working until midnight after everybody else has left. On the other hand, it has often been the case that some TAs want to work really hard and fast, skipping lunch breaks, say, whereas other TAs want to take a more relaxed approach and work for longer, and yet other TAs might need to leave for a few hours in the afternoon and want to come back in the evening instead (but if so, please make sure that you can access the premises as needed). I will delegate to you how to deal with all such matters, trusting that you will be able to deal with it, and that you will not hesitate to contact me if this doesn't quite work out in the end.

During the day, new issues will come up as you grade more and more problems. When this happens, the grading guidelines will need to be updated.

I propose the following approach for this:
(a) Any new issues will need to be added to the grading guidelines, so that we can know afterwards exactly how the exams were graded. The final grading guidelines will also be shared with the students.
(b) At the same time, it is important that the grading guidelines don't explode in length, with a separate item for every single possible mistake. Compare to the grading guidelines you have seen for the problem sets. This is the level of detail we expect for the exam grading guidelines also. (In fact, most of the problem set grading guidelines are old exam grading guidelines.)
(c) To decide how to grade some new issue that has not been discussed before, I propose that you first ask our PhD students Flo and Theo, whom we designate as math experts. Flo and Theo, if you feel comfortable deciding on some issue, based on what you have seen in the problem set grading guidelines and staying consistent with the style and level of these grading guidelines, then this is fine by me.
(d) If the issue seems serious or complicated enough that the full weight of a professorial verdict is needed, then you can send me an e-mail message at jn@di.ku.dk and/or text me at +46 70 742 21 98, and I will look at the description you have left in the grading guidelines document and respond (just as has been done for the problem set).

(5) When the grading is done, I need all exams in the boxes in my office again (importantly, exams should then be sorted in order of exam number, because we will do some spot checks when finalizing the grading to try to make sure we get borderline exams right, and also there tend to be a high one-digit number of students contacting me with specific questions about their exam afterwards, at which point I will need to be able to find individual exams quickly).

