June 24
=======

Gustav Mollerup
---------------

Exam number: 3

Combinatorics: Matches 1-(a) (incorrect reasoning). Correctly understands denominator (binomial coefficient in words as well as factorial expression). Matches 2-(b) correctly (correct reasoning). Matches 3-(c) incorrectly. Has the right idea but confused by initial wrong choice. With some help, writes down the expression and corrects to 3-(a). Can't finish completely. Skips rest.

Graph algos: Implements DFS run correctly. 
Q: What is the spanning tree?
A: Draws correctly.
Implements Dijkstra correctly. Draws spanning tree incorrectly (connects a-e), confused with heap.
Q: How does Dijkstra get shortest path?
A: Fixes tree.
Q: How do you know the edges to add?
A: Choose edges used by algo.

Grade: 4


Lucas Ullerup Marshall
----------------------

Exam number: 1

Algo analysis: Can implement correctly and says in words. 
Q: For running time, number of times innermost line executes?
A: Writes 1+2+...+n = n(n+1)/2. Quadratic runtime.
Q: Can you make it run faster?
A: Has the right idea but gives wrong pseudocode (adds A[i] to A[i-1]). Fixes with some discussion.

Combinatorics: Knows what a binomial coefficient means in words but not factorial formula. Matches 1-(a) incorrectly. Matches 2-(b) correctly (generous help with reasoning here but incomplete). Unable to match 3.

Grade: 02


Abel Ridgewell
--------------

Exam number: 2

Merge sort: Implements recursion correctly. Understands how merging works. 
Q: Runtime?
A: O(n log n). Some high-level reasoning.
Q: Best or worst-case?
A: Best-case. 

Relations: M1 = reflexive closure. M2 = not possible. M3 = transitive closure of inverse. 
Q: Prove that M2 = impossible?
A: Can't turn 1st two rows to 0.

Propositional logic: 
1. Truth table written and argued correctly.
2. Truth table written and argued correctly.

Combinatorics: Binomial coefficient in words and factorials. Matches 2-(b) correctly (correct reasoning). Matches 3-(a) correctly (correct reasoning). Guesses 1-(c) but not clear on explanation.

Grade: 12


Theodor Kristensen
------------------

Exam number: 4

Propositional logic: 
1. Truth table: implication TT incorrectly written (confuses implication with equivalence). Gets tautology. JN fixes implication TT. Skips to next question.

Graph algos: 
1. DFS: does DFS run correctly (no start or finish times). Draws spanning tree correctly.
2. Dijkstra: runs ad hoc. 
Q: How do you maintain values?
A: Priority queue. 
Q: How to change values?
A: Update neighbours. But implementation is incorrect. (Updates neighbour of b while processing d). 
Q: Operations on a priority queue?
A: Last-in-first-out.
Q: How to use priority?
A: No answer.
Overall implementation is ad-hoc, and not clear on how exactly the algorithm updates vertex distances.
Spanning tree drawn incorrectly.
Q: Information in Spanning tree?
A: Shortest paths found in ST. Fixes ST.
Q: How does algo produce ST?
A: Tries to explain. Some elements are correct, but edges added to ST in wrong order.

Grade: 00


Kian Kaarup Bøgh
----------------

Exam number: 2

Merge sort: Implements recursion correctly. Not exactly clear on how merging works.
Q: Runtime?
A: O(n^2) because of nested loops.

Relations: M1 = reflexive closure, M2 = transitive and symmetric closure?, M3 = inverse and symmetric? (correct reasoning but wrong answer)
Q: matrix of a symmetric closure?
A: unclear answer.
Q: Define symmetric matrix?
A: unable to define, defined for him.
Q: Is the matrix of symmetric closure symmetric?
A: No. 

Propositional logic: Knows definitions of tautology and contradiction. TT of implication written correctly. Gets the right answer for 1 though TT is not quite right.

Grade: 00


Lea Rasmussen
--------------

Grade: U


June 29
=======

Oliver Gleerup
--------------

Exam number: 3

Combinatorics: Knows the meaning of binomial coefficient. Looks up factorial defn in the notes. Matches 1-(a) incorrectly with wrong reasoning. Matches 2-(b) correctly (with incomplete reasoning). Unable to continue. Skips.

Graph algos: Looks up DFS algo in notes. Mistake in implementing DFS. Returns recursion from c to a (should be to b). 
Q: Explain the notion of "visit".
A: Reasonable answer.
After some discussion, confused about whether recursion returns to b. Comes round to the idea of starting with b. Continues with the rest of the algorithm.
Q: Spanning tree.
A: Satisfactory answer.
Dijkstra: algo in notes. Reads out algo.
Q: what kind of queue?
A: Unclear. Skips.

Algorithm analysis: given a length-4 example input. Is able to execute on this input. Can give an informal description of the algo. Running time is quadratic (wrong reasoning).

Grade: 00



Frej
----

Grade: U


Oscar Beyer-Nielsen
-------------------

Exam number: 3

Combinatorics: Skips.

Graph algos: Implements DFS correctly on input.
Q: Spanning tree?
A: Unsure about ST. Draws a path (incorrect).
Starts to implement Dijkstra. 
Q: how to find least weight vertex at any point?
A: Unclear. linear search?
Wrong RELAX implementation in Dijkstra. Gives wrong implementation as a result.
Q: How to find shortest paths from output?
A: Unclear.

Algorithm analysis: Nested loop implies quadratic time.
Q: Explain?
A: Confuses Running time with correctness. Moves on to explanation of algorithm output.
Q: what is output on example input?
A: Confuses with checking something. 

Grade: 00


Sevval Zana Kilic
------------------

Exam number: 3

Combinatorics: Knows binomial coefficients. Skips.

Graph algos: Explains DFS. Implements DFS correctly. Gives asymptotic running time. 
Q: ST?
A: Draws correctly.
Dijkstra. To compute shortest paths on weighted graphs. Implements Dijkstra correctly and shows ST.
Q: How to use ST to find shortest path?
A: Shows correctly.

Algorithm analysis: Struggles with analyzing small example.

Grade: 00


Kevin Kinsella
--------------

Exam number: 2

Merge sort: Doesn't sort array of size 2 before merging with an array of size 3. But first compares the two elements in array of size 2.
Q: What is the base case of recursion?
A: Will split further if we have two arrays of length 2, but not an array of length 2 with array of length 1. 
After some discussion, fixes to say recursion stops at length 1.  Shows how to merge (small inaccuracies).
Q: Time complexity of merge sort?
A: O(n log n) best-case.
Q: Worst case?
A: Same.

Relations: Says correctly that M1 = reflexive closure. M3 = inverse of transitive closure. M2 = not possible. Some case analysis given. Good answer.

Propositional logic: Knows definitions of tautology and contradiction.
Truth table for first function written correctly. Correct conclusion for first function.
Right answer for second function.

Grade: 10


Søren Strøyberg
----------------

Exam number: 3

Combinatorics: Knows the meaning of binomial coefficient. Gets the formula after discussion. Matches 1-(a) incorrectly (wrong reasoning). Guesses 2-(b) (reasoning from pattern matching, not quite clear). Skips.

Graph algos: DFS. Puts many more nodes on stack than neighbours. Go to b.
Q: Why b?
A: using weight (wrong). Confused about directed/undirected graphs.
Q: How to convert undirected to directed?
A: Unclear how to. (Answer given by Jakob)
After help, corrects stack. Now pops b (correct). 
Q: Do we use edge weights?
A: Yes. Want to compute MST.
Q: Does DFS computes MST?
A: Yes.
Confused about adding d to stack from b. 
Skips.

Analysis of algorithms: wrong implementation of algo on small example.

Grade: 00


Karl Nybo
---------

Exam number: 3

Combinatorics: Knows binomial coefficients and how to calculate them. Matches 1-(a) incorrectly (wrong reasoning). Skips.

Graph algos: Implements DFS with weights?
Q: What if the graph is unweighted?
A: Knows the difference.
Q: How to run DFS on a weighted graph?
A: Continues to use weights. But otherwise consistent with this misconception.
Q: Spanning tree?
A: Can draw ST.
Q: Time stamps?
A: Uses weights to compute time stamps.
Dijkstra: priority queue. Implements first step incorrectly (picks b instead of d based on alphabetical order instead of using weights).
Q: what is priority queue after a?
A: Shows correctly and now picks d correctly.
Implements the rest correctly (modulo minor inaccuracies).
Q: Draw ST?
A: shown incorrectly (one tiebreaker was wrong, fixed after some discussion; and wrong edge between b and f) 
Q: How are these edges computed?
A: When edge weights are updated. 
Q: Shortest path to f?
A: Fixes the errors in shortest path to f.

Algorithm analysis: Can implement first iteration of loop on small example. Second iteration implemented incorrectly, but fixes after some thinking.


Grade: 00


Siw Møller
----------

Exam number: 1

Algorithm analysis: Given small example. Implements correctly on this example. Gives an informal interpretation of algorithm. Running time analysis done correctly. Faster implementation should take time O(n). Gets it with some help.

Combinatorics: Matches 2-(b) correctly (reasoning given). Matches 1-(a) incorrectly, 3-(d) incorrectly. Skips.

Merge Sort: Recursion tree given correctly. Merging done correctly.
Q: Run time of Merge sort?
A: O(n log n) with some reasoning.
Q: What if array already sorted?
A: No change.

Propositional logic: wrong statement about implication (F->T false).
Q: Truth table of implication?
A: incorrect.
 
Grade: 7


Julius Berg
-----------

Exam number: 4

Propositional logic: Truth table of implication incorrect (fixed by Jakob). Gets the first one almost right after this (but final answer correct). Gets the second one without a problem.

Graph algos: DFS order given correctly. 
Q: Does it terminate when it gets to f?
A: Because no vertices are left to be discovered through backtracking (but not completely clear).
Dijkstra implemented high-level.
Q: Formal details?
A: Cannot reconstructed pseudocode.
Skips.

Relations: M1 = reflexive closure of MR. M2, M3 unclear. Knows definitions of reflexive, symmetric, transitive. Inverse incorrectly defined (negate each entry). Fixed by Jakob.

Merge Sort: Recursion done correctly. Merging done correctly.
Q: running time?
A: O(n log n) without correct reasoning.
Q: Runtime on sorted array?
A: No change.

Grade: 4


Lauritz Jørgensen
------------------

Grade: U



Emma-Maria Marup
----------------

Exam number: 4

Propositional logic: definition of contradiction unclear. -> confused with equivalence?
Q: What is -> called?
A: Unclear (answer given by Jakob).
Q: Truth table of p->q?
A: wrong truth table (truth table of equivalence written). Correct TT given by Jakob.
Q: Fix TT of p->q and q->p?
A: Changes incorrectly. Fixed by Jakob.
Q: Given this info, answer for first formula?
A: Contradiction [wrong]
Q: Second formula?
A: Writes wrong truth table for AND and p->(NOT q). Tautology. (Gets this after lots of help.)

Graph algos: (almost out of time)
Q: What does Dijkstra do?
A: Finds order of jumps between vertices? On given example, points out least weight edges.

Grade: -3


Emil Thorlund
--------------

Exam number: 3

Combinatorics: Definition of binomial coefficient given correctly both math formula and in words. Matches 1-(a) incorrectly. Matches 2-(b) correctly (qualified guess). Matches 3-(d) incorrectly. Skips.

Graph algos: Skips.

Algorithm analysis: On small example, runs first iteration correctly. Second iteration incorrectly done at first but then fixes with prodding. 
Q: Informal description of output?
A: Given correctly.
Q: Time complexity?
A: Worst case (?!) O(n^2). Justified with reasonable help.
Q: More efficient way?
A: Can do it in linear time but don't know how. (Generous amount of help from Jakob.) Gets idea for adding A[i] to B[i-1] in an example.
Q: Pseudocode?
A: Does it.
Q: Running time?
A: O(n)

Grade: 00


Noah
----

Grade: U




