Exam schedule and information for Introduction to Discrete Mathematics and Algorithms (IDMA) oral re-exam in June 2026

Dear all,

Below you find the exam schedule and some more information for the upcoming IDMA oral re-exam.


IDMA ORAL EXAM SCHEDULE JUNE 24, 2026

Time	User ID	Name
09:00	ZJM580	Gustav Ingels Mollerup 
09:30	DQR746	Lucas Ullerup Marshall 
10:00	NPZ178	Abel Asrat Ridgewell 
10:30	GHP118	Theodor Kristensen 
11:00	RWL997	Kian Kaarup Bøgh 
11:30	DPS824	Lea Skov Rasmussen


IDMA ORAL EXAM SCHEDULE JUNE 29, 2026

Time	User ID	Name
09:00	CGQ654	Oliver Fisker Gleerup
09:30	HMF512	Oscar Beyer-Nielsen
10:00	CHV630	Sevval Zana Kilic
10:30	LWH753	Kevin Jessen Kinsella
11:00	LDS147	Søren Strøyberg
11:30	KCJ878	Karl August Krogh Nybo
12:00	HRT999	Frej Berri Lejre 
12:00	TZQ775	Noah Gyldenløve Skovborg
12:30	VJZ343	Siw Foged Møller
13:00	FKX388	Julius Willestofte Berg
13:30	FQM630	Lauritz Tørholm Jørgensen
14:00	ZBT570	Emma-Maria Marup
14:30	GPV679	Emil Roer Thorlund


EXAM INSTRUCTIONS

Please make sure to read through all of the instructions below carefully --- this is important so that you come well-prepared to the exam, where there will not be time to explain everything in detail.

The oral re-exam will be held in the Algorithms and Complexity Section premises at Vibenshuset. Please see below for detailed directions. Once you have entered the main premises of the Algorithm and Complexity Section, you can wait at the tables in the lunch area close to the open kitchen. We will come and pick you up when it is your turn.

Please make sure to arrive for your exam 5-10 minutes in advance, so that we can start on time. Also please note that although it can be hard to stick exactly to the schedule during a long exam day like this, you have to show up in time for your exam --- late arrival counts as a no-show.

The set-up for the oral exam is that you are expected to answer all questions "online" without any separate time for preparations ("mundtlig prøve uden forberedelsestid"). The total time for the exam is 30 minutes, out of which roughly 20 minutes will constitute the actual exam for you, and the remaining 10 minutes is me and my co-examiner Srikanth Srinivasan deliberating and then announcing the grade to you. You can take the exam in either English or Danish. (Neither Srikanth nor myself is a native Danish speaker, but we should be able to manage, so you can definitely do the exam in Danish if this is your wish.)

So what is a good way to prepare for the exam? I think that strategies that were good for the written exam will also be good for the oral one. Studying the course material carefully is, of course, a no-brainer. In particular, you have been provided with many problem sets with worked-out solutions, and they are especially relevant in that they give some kind of indication as to what material is deemed to be especially important (although you should note that there is also important material that was *not* covered in the problem sets or on the regular exam for any given year, and that it is thus *not* safe to just skip material missing any given year).

The re-exam is intended to be an "abbreviated, oral version of the written exam", though, of course, the difference between 4 hours and 20-30 minutes, and between written and oral examination, will change things quite a lot. We are planning to have problems of similar flavour as in the written exam, but to make them significantly easier to answer (sometimes my having multiple-choice alternatives) in view of the condensed time frame.

At the outset of the exam, we will choose a random number by using https://www.random.org/. That random number will determine in which order the questions are presented to each student. In general, you should not expected to get through all of the questions during the oral exam. At the end of the exam, you will be assessed on how many of the questions you answered and how well you answered them. If you feel that a question is too hard, then you can ask to skip forward to the next question, but the fact that you did not answer the question will of course be considered when assigning the grade (so that students cannot just flip through all questions and answer the ones that they like best).

Just as during a written exam, whether you solve a problem or not is not a binary yes-or-no question. In contrast to the written exam, we now have the possibility for dialogue, and we will use this to take into consideration how well you reason, even if you do not manage to solve a problem completely.

Finally, I have said this before, but I will say it again: please do make sure to invest significant time to learn the course material properly. This is not just a question of passing this particular course. The material covered in this course is truly foundational, and you will need it over and over again, in one form or another, in later courses. Every hour of high-quality study time spent on this course might easily save you two or three hours on later courses. So, be smart, and be kind to yourself, and make sure to study hard for the IDMA re-exam.

Good luck on the exam!

Jakob


DIRECTIONS TO VIBENSHUSET

Due to renovations, the Algorithms and Complexity Section is currently located at Vibenshuset at Lyngbyvej 2, right at the metro station Vibenshus Runddel.

As you exit the metro station, Vibenshuset is the building just across the street to your right on the corner. The offices of the Algorithms and Complexity Section are on the 4th floor (four flights of stairs above the ground floor).

After you have entered Vibenshuset, go straight through the building (past the reception area) until the end (at a coffee shop), where you turn right and walk down the hallway until you reach the lift to your right. Take the lift (or the stairs just behind it) to the 4th floor. As you exit the lift, turn right and walk to the door, which should have signs for BARC and QMATH. This door requires an access card, but you can ring the BARC doorbell to get someone to open.

When you have entered, walk straight through the first open space and continue through the kitchen area, and then you have reached the premises of the Algorithm and Complexity Section. There are lots of tables close to a second kitchen area, and if you wait there we will come and pick you up for the exam. 


Jakob Nordström, Professor
University of Copenhagen and Lund University
Phone: +45 28 78 38 11 / +46 70 742 21 98
https://jakobnordstrom.se

